Show-stoppers:

- We need a script that uses the plugin manager's internal functions to
  do a complete or partial update, using the command line.  We need this
  to allow easy update after a major Fiji release.

  In other words: we need to be able to create db.xml.gz in the release
  script, so a non-interactive version of the "uploading" is required.  This
  means that the fact that FileUploader has mixed responsibilities (do SSH
  _and_ know what files to write and in which order) comes back to bite us.

- We need to have a mode which preselects every updateable plugin as
  "Update".  This will be the new "Update Fiji".

- If the new db.xml.gz contains an entry all of whose timestamps are
  newer than the timestamp of the db.xml.gz we downloaded previously,
  that entry must be new.  The user might be interested in installing
  this.

- Usability bug: the install/remove it/upload it combo box: it takes a normal
  user minutes, plus assistance from people who know, to realize where to click
  with the mouse to make the box reveal itself.

  My suggestion: make the combobox always visible, so the pulldown
  arrow is visible and self-evident.  Synaptic, Ubuntu's default package
  manager, is an example of a self-evident package marking system.

- Usability bug: the "Edit details" button is only active when uploading a
  plugin.  I'd rather have the Edit Details button on at all times (or let the
  field be editable at all times); if the developer chooses to just edit the
  details without updating the file, that should be perfectly fine.

  Think for example if a dependency is fixed.

- The dependency list should be editable so that the developer can
  correct mistakes (not all are "at-least" dependencies) and add
  additional dependencies.

- For the files like StartupMacros.txt (which we _need_, as there is a
  serious bug regarding the lookup tables in Fiji Dresden 2009), we need
  to include previous version hashes, too, so that people _can_ update
  without a hassle.

- The current time of the server _must_ be used for new timestamps!!!
  Otherwise, we risk clock skew!!!

Not-quite show-stoppers:

- If the developer tries to upload a version that has already be marked
  as a previous version, ask her loudly if she is sure.

- When a plugin is not installed, the menu item "Upload It" would be more
  aptly names "Remove from Updater".

- The actions should be editable by keyboard shortcuts.  Likewise,
  "Escape" should exit, asking if the user is sure when actions where
  selected but not launched.

- The list of plugins included in the file should be shown, too.  We can
  use fiji.User_Plugins' parsePluginsConfig() method, probably after
  wrapping it into a public method that takes a String parameter
  containing the .jar file's path.

- We need a "category" attribute so we can label, say, "Segmentation
  Editor" to belong into the categories "segmentation" and
  "interactive".

- make the list sortable by clicking on the column titles (second click
  sorts descending).

- if the user has locally-modified files (which are therefore not to be updated
  by default), show a warning message.

- it was part of the project plan to provide automated tests.  Add some.
